readme.md, before:

## In-depth analysis of ChatGPT zip file of /home/oai

### What this repository is

This repo is explicitly described as “all the files that came from asking chatgpt to zip /home/oai” . In other words:

* It’s **not** a conventional application with an entrypoint, service, or package manifest.
* It’s a **snapshot of a working directory** used in a tool-enabled assistant runtime.
* The snapshot contains:

  * “skills” (Markdown runbooks / guidance)
  * helper scripts to render/validate artifacts
  * a small JS helper library to make programmatic slide creation safer and more consistent

This matters because the “value” of the repo is mostly **workflow + QA**: it encodes *how* an agent should generate and *how it should verify* outputs.

---

## How these tools are constructed

### 1) “Skills” are runbooks for an agent (not typical end-user docs)

The `skills/**/skill.md` files read like **operational instructions** for a tool-using agent: what to use, what not to use, and—most importantly—how to review the output visually.

Two consistent patterns show up:

1. **Render → Inspect loop**
   The PDF guidance says to repeatedly convert PDFs to PNGs and visually inspect after meaningful changes .
   The DOCX guidance says the same, but first converts DOCX → PDF with LibreOffice and then PDF → PNG with `pdftoppm` .

2. **“Client-ready” quality bar**
   Both skills explicitly focus on layout fidelity (no clipping, no overlaps, no broken tables) and insist the artifact should look curated—**not** like a template dump .

That’s a very specific design: the skills are less about “API docs” and more about **behavioral guardrails** that keep an agent from shipping ugly/incorrect deliverables.

---

### 2) Rendering scripts convert office files into images for visual QA

There are two key renderers:

#### DOCX renderer: `skills/docs/render_docx.py`

This script implements the runbook mechanically:

* It computes a DPI by reading page size directly from DOCX OOXML (`word/document.xml`) using **twips** (1/1440 inch), so that resulting images fit inside a target pixel window.
* It converts to PDF via LibreOffice in headless mode **using a temporary user profile** (to avoid profile lock/timeouts), then rasterizes the PDF to PNG via `pdf2image`.
* It includes a robustness fallback: **DOCX → ODT → PDF** if direct conversion fails.

This tells you a lot about the designers’ lived experience:

* They’ve hit LibreOffice instability/timeouts enough to bake in mitigations.
* They want consistent preview sizing (fixed pixel targets), which strongly hints that images are meant to be reviewed inside a UI with practical max dimensions.

#### PPTX renderer: `share/slides/render_slides.py`

This mirrors the DOCX renderer, but uses PPTX slide size from `ppt/presentation.xml` in **EMUs** (914,400 EMU per inch).

It also:

* uses a temporary LibreOffice profile
* includes a fallback conversion: **PPTX → ODP → PDF**, then rasterize
* normalizes output filenames into `slide-{n}.png`

Again: this is a “turn the artifact into pixels so the agent can see what it did” design.

---

### 3) Slide utilities handle real-world asset messiness (formats, previews, QA tests)

#### `ensure_raster_image.py`: converting weird formats to PNG

PowerPoint decks (and office documents generally) often contain embedded assets that are not “normal web images”:

* EMF/WMF/EMZ/WMZ (Windows Metafiles)
* SVG/SVGZ
* HEIC/HEIF
* JXR/WDP (JPEG XR)
* even PDF/EPS/PS assets

This script is specifically built to take a list/dir of assets and guarantee you end up with raster PNGs for preview, using external tools like Inkscape, ImageMagick, Ghostscript, etc.

That indicates the designers were optimizing for **robust previewability** in messy, heterogeneous real-world decks.

#### `slides_test.py`: automated overflow detection

This is a clever QA pattern:

* It makes a copy of a PPTX that’s slightly larger than the original, adds a gray “padding” border, shifts all shapes inward, renders to images, and checks whether anything drew into the border area.
* It uses pixel inspection (NumPy) with DPI-based tolerance to avoid false positives from antialiasing.

This gives you an explicit “unit test” for a visual property: **nothing should overflow the slide canvas**. That is a designer’s response to a very common failure mode of programmatic slide generation.

---

### 4) `pptxgenjs_helpers`: a “mini standard library” for safer programmatic decks

The `share/slides/pptxgenjs_helpers` directory is a CommonJS module bundle with a simple `index.js` that re-exports submodules (images, SVG, LaTeX, code-highlighting, layout analyzers, layout builders, utils).

Key parts:

* **LaTeX → SVG**: `latex.js` uses `mathjax-full` to render LaTeX as SVG and returns a data URI.
  Intent: make math renderable in slides consistently, with vector fidelity.

* **Code → styled text runs**: `code.js` uses PrismJS tokenization and theme extraction to produce colorized runs (e.g., for monospace code blocks in slides).
  Intent: enable “presentation-quality” code formatting rather than plain text boxes.

* **Layout analysis / overlap detection**: `layout.js` inspects slide objects and warns/errors on overlaps, with special handling to reduce false positives. It even prints “THIS MUST BE FIXED” for severe text overlaps.
  Intent: catch visual defects programmatically, so an agent can self-correct.

This set of helpers reflects a strong philosophy: **prevent predictable layout mistakes** by giving the generator higher-level building blocks and automated validators.

---

## What was the intent of the designers?

Based on the evidence in the runbooks and scripts, the intent looks like a combination of:

1. **Make “artifact generation” reliable for an agent**
   The renderers + QA scripts exist because you can’t trust generated documents unless you can *see* them. The whole system is optimized for an agent that iterates:

   * generate
   * render
   * inspect
   * fix
   * repeat

2. **Guarantee a “client-ready” output bar**
   The skills are explicit that outputs must be polished, with consistent spacing/typography, no internal tool tokens, and no visible formatting defects .

3. **Bake in hard-earned operational robustness**
   Temporary LibreOffice profiles to avoid timeouts/locks, and fallback conversions (ODT/ODP) strongly suggest prior incidents and “paper cuts” were hardened into the tooling.

4. **Support real-world variability (especially slides)**
   The asset conversion script exists because real decks include weird embedded formats, and without conversion your preview/review pipeline breaks.

---

## How these tools are utilized “in production” (best-faith inference)

The repo itself does not contain the orchestration layer (the “tool runner” or agent framework), but the workflow implied by the files is pretty clear:

1. The agent receives a request: “create a report”, “build a deck”, etc.
2. The agent generates the artifact via code (PDF/DOCX/PPTX/XLSX).
3. The agent runs a renderer script to produce PNG previews.
4. The agent visually inspects the PNGs (or programmatically tests them), fixes defects, and repeats.
5. Only after the preview is clean does it deliver the final file.

That loop is explicitly demanded in the skill runbooks (PDF/DOCX)  and implemented concretely in the renderers and slide QA scripts .

---

## What’s missing / limitations you should call out in a README

If you’re publishing this repo for others:

* This is not a complete product—there’s no CLI “app” that ties everything together.
* Some pieces assume a specific environment:

  * LibreOffice installed (`soffice`)
  * Poppler tools (`pdftoppm`) and `pdf2image` working
  * Image conversion dependencies (Inkscape, ImageMagick, Ghostscript, etc.)
* Some material references internal/proprietary assumptions (especially in spreadsheets); treat those sections as environment-specific.

---

# Replacement `README.md` (copy/paste)

```md
# homeOAI

A **snapshot of `/home/oai`** from a tool-enabled ChatGPT-style runtime. This repo is mostly:

- **Skills**: Markdown “runbooks” describing how an agent should read, create, and *review* artifacts (PDF/DOCX/spreadsheets).
- **Render + QA utilities**: scripts that convert artifacts into PNGs so outputs can be visually inspected and tested.
- **Slide helpers**: a small JS helper library (`pptxgenjs_helpers`) that adds higher-level layout building blocks and checks for programmatic PowerPoint generation.

> ⚠️ Important context  
> This is not a complete application. It’s a toolbox + guidance that assumes an external orchestration layer (an agent/tool runner) will invoke these scripts and libraries.

---

## Why this repo is interesting

If you’ve ever tried programmatic document generation (or LLM-driven document generation), you hit the same hard problems:

- You can generate a file, but you can’t trust layout correctness without rendering it.
- Office conversions can be flaky and require hardening.
- Decks contain assets in weird formats (EMF/WMF/JXR/HEIC/SVG/etc.).
- “Looks good” is a real QA requirement that needs both human inspection *and* automated checks.

This repo encodes a pragmatic answer:

> **Generate → render to images → inspect → fix → repeat**  
> Don’t ship until the PNG review is clean.

---

## Repository layout

.
├── redirect.html
├── share/
│   └── slides/
│       ├── create_montage.py
│       ├── ensure_raster_image.py
│       ├── render_slides.py
│       ├── slides_test.py
│       └── pptxgenjs_helpers/
│           ├── code.js
│           ├── image.js
│           ├── index.js
│           ├── latex.js
│           ├── layout.js
│           ├── layout_builders.js
│           ├── svg.js
│           └── util.js
└── skills/
    ├── docs/
    │   ├── render_docx.py
    │   └── skill.md
    ├── pdfs/
    │   └── skill.md
    └── spreadsheets/
        ├── artifact_tool_spreadsheet_formulas.md
        ├── artifact_tool_spreadsheets_api.md
        ├── skill.md
        ├── spreadsheet.md
        └── examples/
            ├── create_basic_spreadsheet.py
            ├── create_spreadsheet_with_styling.py
            ├── read_existing_spreadsheet.py
            ├── styling_spreadsheet.py
            └── features/
                ├── change_existing_charts.py
                ├── cite_cells.py
                ├── create_area_chart.py
                ├── create_bar_chart.py
                ├── create_doughnut_chart.py
                ├── create_line_chart.py
                ├── create_pie_chart.py
                ├── create_tables.py
                ├── set_cell_borders.py
                ├── set_cell_fills.py
                ├── set_cell_width_height.py
                ├── set_conditional_formatting.py
                ├── set_font_styles.py
                ├── set_merge_cells.py
                ├── set_number_formats.py
                ├── set_text_alignment.py
                └── set_wrap_text_styles.py

---

## Core design ideas

### 1) “Render → Inspect” is the centerpiece
The skills explicitly insist you **render to PNGs after meaningful changes** and visually inspect every page/slide before shipping.

This pattern makes LLM/agent output *auditable*: the agent can “see” what it produced and iterate.

### 2) Robust headless conversion
The renderers use LibreOffice headless conversion (DOCX/PPTX → PDF) and then rasterize the PDF into PNGs. They also isolate LibreOffice with a temporary user profile to avoid common headless problems (profile locks/timeouts).

### 3) Programmatic QA for visual issues
Slides include automated checks like:
- overflow detection (content outside slide canvas)
- overlap detection between elements

This reduces the chance of shipping “looks broken” decks.

### 4) Higher-level slide building blocks
Instead of forcing authors to place everything with raw coordinates, `pptxgenjs_helpers` provides:
- layout builders (cards/rows/groups/trees)
- utilities for math rendering and code highlighting
- geometry and overlap checks

---

## Using the utilities locally

> These scripts assume system dependencies like LibreOffice and Poppler. If you’re running outside the original environment, you’ll need to install them yourself.

### Render a DOCX to PNGs

```bash
python skills/docs/render_docx.py /path/to/input.docx --output_dir /tmp/doc_pages
````

Expected output: `/tmp/doc_pages/page-1.png`, `/tmp/doc_pages/page-2.png`, ...

### Render a PPTX to PNGs

```bash
python share/slides/render_slides.py /path/to/deck.pptx --output_dir /tmp/slides
```

Expected output: `/tmp/slides/slide-1.png`, `/tmp/slides/slide-2.png`, ...

### Check for slide overflow (content outside canvas)

```bash
python share/slides/slides_test.py /path/to/deck.pptx
```

If overflow is detected, it prints which slides failed and where the rendered debug images live.

### Convert mixed image assets to PNG for preview

```bash
python share/slides/ensure_raster_image.py --input_dir ./assets --output_dir ./assets_png
```

Useful when dealing with embedded slide assets that are not standard raster formats.

### Create a montage image (slide-sorter style)

```bash
python share/slides/create_montage.py --input_dir /tmp/slides --output_file montage.png --num_col 5
```

---

## Using `pptxgenjs_helpers` (Node)

The helpers are designed to be used with **PptxGenJS**-style slide generation.

Example sketch:

```js
const pptxgen = require("pptxgenjs");
const {
  latexToSvgDataUri,
  codeToRuns,
  warnIfSlideHasOverlaps,
  addCardRow,
} = require("./share/slides/pptxgenjs_helpers");

const pptx = new pptxgen();
pptx.layout = "LAYOUT_WIDE";

const slide = pptx.addSlide();
slide.addText("Hello", { x: 0.5, y: 0.5, w: 12, h: 1, fontSize: 36 });

// Add LaTeX as SVG
const eq = latexToSvgDataUri(String.raw`\int_0^1 x^2 dx = \frac{1}{3}`);
slide.addImage({ data: eq, x: 0.5, y: 1.5, w: 6, h: 1 });

// Add syntax-highlighted code runs
slide.addText(codeToRuns("print('hi')\nfor i in range(3):\n  print(i)", "python"), {
  x: 0.5, y: 2.8, w: 6, h: 3,
  fill: { color: "222222" }
});

// Check overlaps (helpful while iterating)
warnIfSlideHasOverlaps(slide, pptx);

pptx.writeFile({ fileName: "deck.pptx" });
```

---

## How this maps to “production” agent usage

This repo looks designed to plug into a tool-using agent runtime:

1. Agent generates an artifact (DOCX/PDF/PPTX/XLSX)
2. Agent renders the artifact to PNGs
3. Agent inspects PNGs (and/or runs automated checks)
4. Agent fixes layout/content issues and repeats
5. Agent only ships once the rendered output is clean

If you’re building your own agent:

* Treat `skills/**/skill.md` as *policy + QA requirements*
* Treat `render_*.py` and `slides_test.py` as *verification tools*
* Treat `pptxgenjs_helpers` as your *presentation DSL + linting layer*

---

## Notes on licensing / attribution

Several files include “All rights reserved” copyright headers. This repo does not include an explicit license file.
Before reusing or redistributing code, verify licensing status and ensure you have permission.

---

## Disclaimer

This repository is a snapshot of a working directory from a specific environment.
Paths, dependencies, and behaviors may not match your system without additional setup.

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity on tool usage
Updated the README to reflect tool usage and repository layout.

readme.md, after:

## In-depth analysis of ChatGPT zip file of /home/oai

### What this repository is

This repo is explicitly described as “all the files that came from asking chatgpt to zip /home/oai” . In other words:

* It’s **not** a conventional application with an entrypoint, service, or package manifest.
* It’s a **snapshot of a working directory** used in a tool-enabled assistant runtime.
* The snapshot contains:

  * “skills” (Markdown runbooks / guidance)
  * helper scripts to render/validate artifacts
  * a small JS helper library to make programmatic slide creation safer and more consistent

This matters because the “value” of the repo is mostly **workflow + QA**: it encodes *how* an agent should generate and *how it should verify* outputs.

---

## How these tools are constructed

### 1) “Skills” are runbooks for an agent (not typical end-user docs)

The `skills/**/skill.md` files read like **operational instructions** for a tool-using agent: what to use, what not to use, and—most importantly—how to review the output visually.

Two consistent patterns show up:

1. **Render → Inspect loop**
   The PDF guidance says to repeatedly convert PDFs to PNGs and visually inspect after meaningful changes .
   The DOCX guidance says the same, but first converts DOCX → PDF with LibreOffice and then PDF → PNG with `pdftoppm` .

2. **“Client-ready” quality bar**
   Both skills explicitly focus on layout fidelity (no clipping, no overlaps, no broken tables) and insist the artifact should look curated—**not** like a template dump .

That’s a very specific design: the skills are less about “API docs” and more about **behavioral guardrails** that keep an agent from shipping ugly/incorrect deliverables.

---

### 2) Rendering scripts convert office files into images for visual QA

There are two key renderers:

#### DOCX renderer: `skills/docs/render_docx.py`

This script implements the runbook mechanically:

* It computes a DPI by reading page size directly from DOCX OOXML (`word/document.xml`) using **twips** (1/1440 inch), so that resulting images fit inside a target pixel window.
* It converts to PDF via LibreOffice in headless mode **using a temporary user profile** (to avoid profile lock/timeouts), then rasterizes the PDF to PNG via `pdf2image`.
* It includes a robustness fallback: **DOCX → ODT → PDF** if direct conversion fails.

This tells you a lot about the designers’ lived experience:

* They’ve hit LibreOffice instability/timeouts enough to bake in mitigations.
* They want consistent preview sizing (fixed pixel targets), which strongly hints that images are meant to be reviewed inside a UI with practical max dimensions.

#### PPTX renderer: `share/slides/render_slides.py`

This mirrors the DOCX renderer, but uses PPTX slide size from `ppt/presentation.xml` in **EMUs** (914,400 EMU per inch).

It also:

* uses a temporary LibreOffice profile
* includes a fallback conversion: **PPTX → ODP → PDF**, then rasterize
* normalizes output filenames into `slide-{n}.png`

Again: this is a “turn the artifact into pixels so the agent can see what it did” design.

---

### 3) Slide utilities handle real-world asset messiness (formats, previews, QA tests)

#### `ensure_raster_image.py`: converting weird formats to PNG

PowerPoint decks (and office documents generally) often contain embedded assets that are not “normal web images”:

* EMF/WMF/EMZ/WMZ (Windows Metafiles)
* SVG/SVGZ
* HEIC/HEIF
* JXR/WDP (JPEG XR)
* even PDF/EPS/PS assets

This script is specifically built to take a list/dir of assets and guarantee you end up with raster PNGs for preview, using external tools like Inkscape, ImageMagick, Ghostscript, etc.

That indicates the designers were optimizing for **robust previewability** in messy, heterogeneous real-world decks.

#### `slides_test.py`: automated overflow detection

This is a clever QA pattern:

* It makes a copy of a PPTX that’s slightly larger than the original, adds a gray “padding” border, shifts all shapes inward, renders to images, and checks whether anything drew into the border area.
* It uses pixel inspection (NumPy) with DPI-based tolerance to avoid false positives from antialiasing.

This gives you an explicit “unit test” for a visual property: **nothing should overflow the slide canvas**. That is a designer’s response to a very common failure mode of programmatic slide generation.

---

### 4) `pptxgenjs_helpers`: a “mini standard library” for safer programmatic decks

The `share/slides/pptxgenjs_helpers` directory is a CommonJS module bundle with a simple `index.js` that re-exports submodules (images, SVG, LaTeX, code-highlighting, layout analyzers, layout builders, utils).

Key parts:

* **LaTeX → SVG**: `latex.js` uses `mathjax-full` to render LaTeX as SVG and returns a data URI.
  Intent: make math renderable in slides consistently, with vector fidelity.

* **Code → styled text runs**: `code.js` uses PrismJS tokenization and theme extraction to produce colorized runs (e.g., for monospace code blocks in slides).
  Intent: enable “presentation-quality” code formatting rather than plain text boxes.

* **Layout analysis / overlap detection**: `layout.js` inspects slide objects and warns/errors on overlaps, with special handling to reduce false positives. It even prints “THIS MUST BE FIXED” for severe text overlaps.
  Intent: catch visual defects programmatically, so an agent can self-correct.

This set of helpers reflects a strong philosophy: **prevent predictable layout mistakes** by giving the generator higher-level building blocks and automated validators.

---

## What was the intent of the designers?

Based on the evidence in the runbooks and scripts, the intent looks like a combination of:

1. **Make “artifact generation” reliable for an agent**
   The renderers + QA scripts exist because you can’t trust generated documents unless you can *see* them. The whole system is optimized for an agent that iterates:

   * generate
   * render
   * inspect
   * fix
   * repeat

2. **Guarantee a “client-ready” output bar**
   The skills are explicit that outputs must be polished, with consistent spacing/typography, no internal tool tokens, and no visible formatting defects .

3. **Bake in hard-earned operational robustness**
   Temporary LibreOffice profiles to avoid timeouts/locks, and fallback conversions (ODT/ODP) strongly suggest prior incidents and “paper cuts” were hardened into the tooling.

4. **Support real-world variability (especially slides)**
   The asset conversion script exists because real decks include weird embedded formats, and without conversion your preview/review pipeline breaks.

---

## How these tools are utilized “in production” (best-faith inference)

The repo itself does not contain the orchestration layer (the “tool runner” or agent framework), but the workflow implied by the files is pretty clear:

1. The agent receives a request: “create a report”, “build a deck”, etc.
2. The agent generates the artifact via code (PDF/DOCX/PPTX/XLSX).
3. The agent runs a renderer script to produce PNG previews.
4. The agent visually inspects the PNGs (or programmatically tests them), fixes defects, and repeats.
5. Only after the preview is clean does it deliver the final file.

That loop is explicitly demanded in the skill runbooks (PDF/DOCX)  and implemented concretely in the renderers and slide QA scripts .

---

## What’s missing / limitations you should call out in a README

If you’re publishing this repo for others:

* This is not a complete product—there’s no CLI “app” that ties everything together.
* Some pieces assume a specific environment:

  * LibreOffice installed (`soffice`)
  * Poppler tools (`pdftoppm`) and `pdf2image` working
  * Image conversion dependencies (Inkscape, ImageMagick, Ghostscript, etc.)
* Some material references internal/proprietary assumptions (especially in spreadsheets); treat those sections as environment-specific.

---

# If you were to try and use this as a tool - you have a lot of work to do

A **snapshot of `/home/oai`** from a tool-enabled ChatGPT-style runtime. This repo is mostly:

- **Skills**: Markdown “runbooks” describing how an agent should read, create, and *review* artifacts (PDF/DOCX/spreadsheets).
- **Render + QA utilities**: scripts that convert artifacts into PNGs so outputs can be visually inspected and tested.
- **Slide helpers**: a small JS helper library (`pptxgenjs_helpers`) that adds higher-level layout building blocks and checks for programmatic PowerPoint generation.

> ⚠️ Important context  
> This is not a complete application. It’s a toolbox + guidance that assumes an external orchestration layer (an agent/tool runner) will invoke these scripts and libraries.

---

## Why this repo is interesting

If you’ve ever tried programmatic document generation (or LLM-driven document generation), you hit the same hard problems:

- You can generate a file, but you can’t trust layout correctness without rendering it.
- Office conversions can be flaky and require hardening.
- Decks contain assets in weird formats (EMF/WMF/JXR/HEIC/SVG/etc.).
- “Looks good” is a real QA requirement that needs both human inspection *and* automated checks.

This repo encodes a pragmatic answer:

> **Generate → render to images → inspect → fix → repeat**  
> Don’t ship until the PNG review is clean.

---
## Repository layout
```md
.
├── redirect.html
├── share/
│   └── slides/
│       ├── create_montage.py
│       ├── ensure_raster_image.py
│       ├── render_slides.py
│       ├── slides_test.py
│       └── pptxgenjs_helpers/
│           ├── code.js
│           ├── image.js
│           ├── index.js
│           ├── latex.js
│           ├── layout.js
│           ├── layout_builders.js
│           ├── svg.js
│           └── util.js
└── skills/
    ├── docs/
    │   ├── render_docx.py
    │   └── skill.md
    ├── pdfs/
    │   └── skill.md
    └── spreadsheets/
        ├── artifact_tool_spreadsheet_formulas.md
        ├── artifact_tool_spreadsheets_api.md
        ├── skill.md
        ├── spreadsheet.md
        └── examples/
            ├── create_basic_spreadsheet.py
            ├── create_spreadsheet_with_styling.py
            ├── read_existing_spreadsheet.py
            ├── styling_spreadsheet.py
            └── features/
                ├── change_existing_charts.py
                ├── cite_cells.py
                ├── create_area_chart.py
                ├── create_bar_chart.py
                ├── create_doughnut_chart.py
                ├── create_line_chart.py
                ├── create_pie_chart.py
                ├── create_tables.py
                ├── set_cell_borders.py
                ├── set_cell_fills.py
                ├── set_cell_width_height.py
                ├── set_conditional_formatting.py
                ├── set_font_styles.py
                ├── set_merge_cells.py
                ├── set_number_formats.py
                ├── set_text_alignment.py
                └── set_wrap_text_styles.py
```
---

## Core design ideas

### 1) “Render → Inspect” is the centerpiece
The skills explicitly insist you **render to PNGs after meaningful changes** and visually inspect every page/slide before shipping.

This pattern makes LLM/agent output *auditable*: the agent can “see” what it produced and iterate.

### 2) Robust headless conversion
The renderers use LibreOffice headless conversion (DOCX/PPTX → PDF) and then rasterize the PDF into PNGs. They also isolate LibreOffice with a temporary user profile to avoid common headless problems (profile locks/timeouts).

### 3) Programmatic QA for visual issues
Slides include automated checks like:
- overflow detection (content outside slide canvas)
- overlap detection between elements

This reduces the chance of shipping “looks broken” decks.

### 4) Higher-level slide building blocks
Instead of forcing authors to place everything with raw coordinates, `pptxgenjs_helpers` provides:
- layout builders (cards/rows/groups/trees)
- utilities for math rendering and code highlighting
- geometry and overlap checks

---

## Using the utilities locally

> These scripts assume system dependencies like LibreOffice and Poppler. If you’re running outside the original environment, you’ll need to install them yourself.

### Render a DOCX to PNGs

```bash
python skills/docs/render_docx.py /path/to/input.docx --output_dir /tmp/doc_pages
````

Expected output: `/tmp/doc_pages/page-1.png`, `/tmp/doc_pages/page-2.png`, ...

### Render a PPTX to PNGs

```bash
python share/slides/render_slides.py /path/to/deck.pptx --output_dir /tmp/slides
```

Expected output: `/tmp/slides/slide-1.png`, `/tmp/slides/slide-2.png`, ...

### Check for slide overflow (content outside canvas)

```bash
python share/slides/slides_test.py /path/to/deck.pptx
```

If overflow is detected, it prints which slides failed and where the rendered debug images live.

### Convert mixed image assets to PNG for preview

```bash
python share/slides/ensure_raster_image.py --input_dir ./assets --output_dir ./assets_png
```

Useful when dealing with embedded slide assets that are not standard raster formats.

### Create a montage image (slide-sorter style)

```bash
python share/slides/create_montage.py --input_dir /tmp/slides --output_file montage.png --num_col 5
```

---

## Using `pptxgenjs_helpers` (Node)

The helpers are designed to be used with **PptxGenJS**-style slide generation.

Example sketch:

```js
const pptxgen = require("pptxgenjs");
const {
  latexToSvgDataUri,
  codeToRuns,
  warnIfSlideHasOverlaps,
  addCardRow,
} = require("./share/slides/pptxgenjs_helpers");

const pptx = new pptxgen();
pptx.layout = "LAYOUT_WIDE";

const slide = pptx.addSlide();
slide.addText("Hello", { x: 0.5, y: 0.5, w: 12, h: 1, fontSize: 36 });

// Add LaTeX as SVG
const eq = latexToSvgDataUri(String.raw`\int_0^1 x^2 dx = \frac{1}{3}`);
slide.addImage({ data: eq, x: 0.5, y: 1.5, w: 6, h: 1 });

// Add syntax-highlighted code runs
slide.addText(codeToRuns("print('hi')\nfor i in range(3):\n  print(i)", "python"), {
  x: 0.5, y: 2.8, w: 6, h: 3,
  fill: { color: "222222" }
});

// Check overlaps (helpful while iterating)
warnIfSlideHasOverlaps(slide, pptx);

pptx.writeFile({ fileName: "deck.pptx" });
```

---

## How this maps to “production” agent usage

This repo looks designed to plug into a tool-using agent runtime:

1. Agent generates an artifact (DOCX/PDF/PPTX/XLSX)
2. Agent renders the artifact to PNGs
3. Agent inspects PNGs (and/or runs automated checks)
4. Agent fixes layout/content issues and repeats
5. Agent only ships once the rendered output is clean

If you’re building your own agent:

* Treat `skills/**/skill.md` as *policy + QA requirements*
* Treat `render_*.py` and `slides_test.py` as *verification tools*
* Treat `pptxgenjs_helpers` as your *presentation DSL + linting layer*

---

## Notes on licensing / attribution

Several files include “All rights reserved” copyright headers. This repo does not include an explicit license file.
Before reusing or redistributing code, verify licensing status and ensure you have permission.

---

## Disclaimer

This repository is a snapshot of a working directory from a specific environment.
Paths, dependencies, and behaviors may not match your system without additional setup.
